Okay I want to go through my example of a
Spring Boot application using MySQL. The
source code is available up on GitHub so
if you go to my repository on GitHub for
springframeworkguru and you go to the
repository spring-boot-mysql-example,
you will get the sample source
code for everything I'm going to show
you in this little code review of my
Spring Boot application. I'm going to
toggle over to IntelliJ now and what we
have here is a simple JPA Entity for
Product, it's got four properties on it
id, description, price and imageUrl so
nothing too crazy here and I
also have a ProductRepository and this
is using Spring Data JPA. So if you're not familiar with Spring
Data JPA, this is going to provide a
repository pattern for us to use in our
project and Spring Data JPA will
actually provide the implementation of
this. Now I've written it, I like to wrap
things up in a service before we get to
the controller layer. So I have a very
simple ProductService that's going to
do a listAll, getById, saveOrUpdate
delete or then we can also saveOrUpdate from a product form which is a
command pattern I'm going to use from
the controller. Let's go over here and
take a quick look at the service
implementation and you can see that I've
annotated it as a Service up there on
line 16 so this gets wired up as a
Spring component and I'm bringing in
two different classes that are also
going to be managed by Spring so the
ProductRepository, that is the Spring
Data JPA provided component. Then we also
have a ProductFormToProduct and that
is converter class and that's just going
to do a simple type conversion for us as
things get posted from the web form,
they'll get bound to a ProductForm and
this ProductFormToProduct will do the
type conversion for us and just take a
quick look here, we can
see that we're going through the Product
Repository we do a findAll, for listAll and we'll get all the products and
we'll convert those to everything else
is a fairly self-explanatory. Here now
let's take a quick look at the ProductController, this is a Spring controller
and you can see there on line 37 for
the root I'm doing a simple redirect to
the product/list so that will run the
list and I got two URLs map there both
slash product slash list and then
simply slash product they'll show the
list and pretty standard Spring pattern
here, I'm going to go through when this
comes in we'll bind the model we'll add the
attribute products to it, we call the
ProductService and get a complete list
and return back so I'm not doing any
paging that's just meant to be a fairly
simple example and you can see I have
URL setup with basic CRUD operations
where we can create update show one and
then also do a delete down here at the
bottom and then if you're not familiar
with Thymeleaf, here's the list that
we're looking at it goes through and
iterates out a table for us of all the
products. Now considering that this is My
SQL to enable MySQL for this, I had to
bring in the jar dependency and the Maven
POM for MySQL to set up that connector
and then for Spring Boot, the application
.properties we need to set up a few
things here that are going to be
important for you I have to set up for
years so they're on line 5, I'm
setting up the Spring Data source URL
and this is the URL for your database to
your MySQL database and in this case I
am running against localhost and the
typical port for MySQL is 3306 and I am
connecting to a database called spring
boot_mysql_example so you will want to change that
property to whatever database you are
connecting to. A couple of other tricks
here for the Spring Boot settings on line 10
11 and 12 are some things to
keep the data source connection alive
where or it will issue a periodic query
with MySQL sometimes they will
actually drop out the connection if
you're idle for a while so this is a
trick to keep the database connection
alive and then here on line 17, I am
setting a property show-sql so we will
see the SQL and the console output and
if you're familiar with Hibernate on
line 20 we are setting the ddl-auto and
we are setting it to create-drop. Now if
you're using this against a production
database, I recommend doing something
like validate because the create-drop
is destructive it will recreate the
database with every time so if you're in
development sometimes it's easy to get
away with update and any updates to the
database structure will get made on
startup but if you're running in
production normally you are going to be
using validate to make sure that the
data structure is matching your JPA
structure and then finally I am using
the more recent version of Spring Boot
and it is using Hibernate 5 and in
Hibernate 5 the naming strategy change
and on lines 22 and 23 I am setting that
naming strategy and then finally I'm
on line 25 we are setting the hibernate
dialect for MySQL 5 so let's go ahead
and run this now and I'll show you the
application so I'm going to come up here.
Don't want to do the test,
I am going to run this. I'm running the
main class if you're not familiar with Spring
Boot SpringBoodApplication has a Java
main and we see that we started up here
everything connected fine we are
connecting to MySQL, it did run the
schema export and we can see that
because we have the Hibernate SQL being
shown, we're showing that it's dropping
the table that exists and also
recreating it based on our JPA mappings.
Now let's toggle over and I'll do a
quick demonstration of this so I got up
up here and see if I come in here, does
the redirect product/list, I can do a new
product. So the description,
123 for price some URL, I'm
not doing any data validation, this is
just a real simplistic example to see
that we are in fact persisting data and
if I come back to the list function
you'll see that it did in fact do that. I
can actually come in and edit this and
you see that the edits took, I can come back
to the list as well and of course delete
would work too and come back over here
and you can see that activity the SQL
that were issued by Hibernate, again this
is Hibernate 5 this is SQL that was
generated by Hibernate based on my JPA
mappings and what I was doing in the
Spring Boot web application and again if
you want the source code for this head
on over to GitHub my name is under
GitHub springframeworkguru and the
repository is spring-boot-mysql-example